#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing double
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Project Proposal
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Jacob Humber, Michael Levy and Tianxia Zhou
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We propose to use Shiny and USGS's dataRetrieval to create a webpage where
 users can interactively visualize water data such as streamflow rates,
 reservoir volume, and groundwater levels.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Details
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Shiny is an R package to create interactive plots.
 Shiny applications consist of a user-interface script for the front-end
 and a server script for the back-end.
 We envision a front-end where users can select data by place (e.g.
 stream, groundwater basin), time, and plot type and dimensions.
 We need to explore the details of the data before determining precisely
 what plotting options will be available, but we envision some mapping options
 as well as time series and comparative plots.
 Specifically, we plan to construct visualizations which depict the current
 status the drought within California.
  The server side of the Shiny app will leverage USGS's dataRetrieval tool
 to query data at the time of the user's request.
 This will allow us to make USGS's extensive database available to users
 with minimal storage requirements on our end.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The aforementioned R package dataRetrieval contains numerous functions which
 query hydrologic data directly from the USGS's National Water Information
 System (NWIS).
 The NWIS contains a myriad of data for both surface water, groundwater
 as well as water use.
 Additionally, dataRetrieval provides access to water quality data from
 the Water Quality Portal.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
